# Why I don't answer questions about my ethnicity as 'South Asian'


Good morning, fellow reader, lurker and lover of information. To the wild reader who, yet again has stumbled upon this corner of the internet I call the recess of my thoughts, I say welcome.

{{< admonition note "Psst." >}}
There's more history to this than what meets the eye. If you want to know more, please do message me and I would be happy to share all the resources I can with you. If you've got your own flavour of identity, let's chat! I'm always looking to learn about what it means to be you.
{{< /admonition >}}

## Pretext

To the best of my perception, I do not believe that my parents have forced any views on me. Like any parent does, they did their best to instill a sense of religion and culture with my roots from the motherland. Despite their best efforts, I disagree with their beliefs and notions in God, rituals and praying, but my faith allows me to identify as Hindu while differing with the other majority of Indic practitioners who do.

## Why did I talk about religion? What's it got to do with a nation?

The funny thing is, religion, culture and society are virtually inseparable from the roots of the motherland. As many great medieval and contemporary visionaries who have come in the tryst of time tried to define who is an Indian, the best way I can succinctly define an Indian is anyone who considers themselves one. They consider themselves the descendants and stewards of great (and almost always, differing) philosophies, traditions, epistemologies and beliefs that coexisted through time immemorial who serve and live in their land, their home and their ways of life. Indians with their multiple "religions" (I quote religions because Hinduism is an umbrella term for multiple ways of life) such as Sanātana Dharma, Jain Dharma, Buddhism, Judaism, Zoroastrianism, Christianity, Islam and Sikhi- by order of their appearance in Bhārata (that's the indigenous name for India), have coexisted in the motherland. Has it been easy?

At least, in the time before the Turkic invasions, it was, *relatively*. Social inequities have always existed and were thoroughly debated, reformed and fought against (check out Sankarācharya, Buddha, Dr. B.R Ambedkar, but don't stop there!). Wars were fought for conquest but seldom caused disrespect and upheaval in the ways of life practiced by the people of the land. If you drive through the subcontinent, every 200 or so kilometres, people speak different dialects, worship different gods, eat different foods and still all live together in peace. Until they couldn't, thanks to the colonizers who broke the civilizations that had existed, who disrespected the traditions and the indigenous rights of the civilization's inhabitants, who only decided to leave the motherland after 741 years, in 1947. But the issue of a nation, building the character and attitudes of civilization once again as a state was reopened due to newfound self-determination. So what did the founding people of India do when they drafted the Constitution when they united the broad realms under one state? Some looked to the past, but some manipulated their flavours of identities that did not agree with the ethos of what India was meant to be when they chose to break up the nation in search of their separate identity. This culminated in the violent, brutal Partition of India. Yes, there was no plan to make Pakistan, whose nationalism is flavoured as a religious one over a cultural, composite nationalism, as a separate nation. Many Indians during the time of Indian independence even opposed the fragmentation of the land into communalist enclaves, but history inevitably speaks for itself (check out more about the Khilafat movement if you're interested as to how this identity was born and fostered): we are in the present, with vast differing geopolitical and civilizational identities. Let me reiterate that it was not the commoners who brought forth this form of determination, it was power plays happening again by the elite who wished to hold onto power in this new, post-colonial reality. Everyone is as free to be who they are (without causing others harm or problems of course), but those who attempt to divide should be held accountable.

## How does this tie into the idea of national identity?

This is a rather easy question to answer: my religion has taught me to always put the nation first. Which nation? The nation where I choose to perform my doing and my *karma*, my purpose, my deeds is Canada. Contrary to the public perception that religion should be separate from the source for building one's patriotism, my religion is the source for devotion to my country. Canada has given my family and me so much: from the opportunity of success to equitable access to lead a healthy life.  I live with my fellow citizens, I work with them, I help support them and my actions help my larger, diverse, Canadian society. I am eternally grateful for the wealth of knowledge I have inherited from my ancestors who preach how to serve and thrive in the macrocosm that one lives in. So when I see my fellow Canadians, I think of all of us who are divested in succeeding in our new home, who come here in seeking greener pastures and are bringing their own unique selves to make our country stronger than ever before.

## What does this have to do with the term 'South Asian'?

When forms ask what my ethnicity is and where my roots are from, I immediately think of those I share cultural roots with. Everyone might have a different answer to this question; some might not be connected to their cultural roots and would have a different set of identities that they choose to pair up with. I can only speak from my experience when I say that when I think of 'South Asians', it lumps me up with identities that were built in exclusion to what it means to be rooted as an Indian. A similar analogy I can give you would be the Germans and Austrians. Despite sharing a long, intertwined history starting with the Germanics of the Roman Empire, the Holy Roman Empire, and most of contemporary 1900s-era history, a common standardized language and certain religious customs, they are separate nations because they recognize their set of beliefs, values and systems that ascertain their uniqueness as a country and as a people. The Chinese and the Taiwanese, perhaps. The Singaporeans and the Malaysians. One of my friends told me about some people lumping Persians and Arabs together. Lumping them together (as has happened in the past) robs them of their individualism and their character as to what has made each and every one of them unique, and the choices that they have made to stay together as a civilization or a state or a nation or whatever you may call it. For me, I can only speak of my experience and to you, my reader, you must have your own flavour of identity that connects you to the bigger picture.

## Conclusion

All I ask you, dear reader is that when you think of someone's identity, please do remember that sometimes, the box carries an intertwined history around which multiple identities get befuddled and mixed up. Maybe, just maybe, it's better to just let people identify as to what they want to be, for that carries a larger weightage to their traditions, their beliefs and most of all, their being. Let's do away with lumping people into boxes for whatever reason it may be.  It only restricts our understanding of what it means to be unique, special and diverse from our roots to our actions.

